# Research Statement

In 2006, before I started my Ph.D. journey, I was invited by a Swedish publisher (Normal förlag) to write a full-length book based on my master’s thesis. In the thesis, I analyzed the aesthetic impact on Swedish drag culture of After Dark—a commercially successful company of drag queens with a strong presence in mainstream Swedish culture and media as early as the late 1970s. It ended up a two-part project. First, I tracked the history of the troupe through archival research and interviews with surviving members. Secondly, I searched far and wide for traces of other performers, individual or in groups, who had appeared in other places, before and during After Dark’s existence. The resulting full-length book was written for the general public, but some of the resulting text from the project were also published in peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters.

A general theme of my research, thus far, circles around the historiography of queer nightlife. I regard it as a never-ending source of generative theoretical and methodological trouble, opening roads into considerations of social organization, aesthetics, norms, archival and digital methods, and the privileging of visibility, liveness, and semi-private spheres in the performing arts.

In my doctoral dissertation, I examined “boylesque,” a recent genre of neo-burlesque performance as a form of drag striptease with a long history of gender-nonconforming burlesque that stretches back through the 20th century. Engaging a speculative historiographic investigation of drag performers in burlesque history for the backward-looking part of the dissertation, I engaged in ethnographic fieldwork, including participant observation and consensual interviews with some contemporary artists in the field. Through this mixed-method approach, I found that gender-fluid performers have employed increasingly explicitly and consciously formulated performative strategies in a queer world-making throughout the history of burlesque.

My research adds to the historiography of burlesque by showing how queerness has been an integral part of this popular entertainment form and orients the field away from assuming that queer spaces have been separated from those spaces we conceive of as “mainstream.” Instead, my project exposes the link between that purported heteronormative mainstream and the queer elements that have existed under its very auspices.

During my doctoral dissertation research, it has also been important to me to maintain an artistic practice. “Drag as Art” was an artistic component to my research interests that emanated as a collaboration on both sides of the Atlantic. Together with Karin Victorin, a Stockholm-based producer of popular entertainment, I was able to secure grant funding to curate a number of drag performance evenings that pushed the queer aesthetic in new and interesting directions with invited artists from all over the world.

In general, my interests lie with popular forms of entertainment. In my doctoral research, I have become near-obsessed with the rapidly changing field of vaudeville, burlesque, film, nightclubs in the 1920s–1930s. As I was embarking on my dissertation research, I decided to keep collecting a significant dataset on drag performers in these different fields. As I collected the dataset, it became evident to me that a lot of the tasks that I performed were repetitive and unnecessary for me to do, since they could be automated. Creating such a data-driven environment was the impetus for me to learn Python. But the programming language also opened up for a research question that I had been trying to wrap my head around during my earlier archival research. It was a methodological question: Can digital methods of both data collection and data visualization (networks, in particular) help us discern connections between performers using large quantities of smaller pieces of archival material? Could those methods help us piece together a larger puzzle from the ephemera that we so often disregard in historical research—such as advertisements, gossip, etc.? I started modeling the “social networks” that were underpinning the burlesque, drag, and stripper communities using a data-driven approach, drawing on methods similar to contemporary textual studies. The project finally became part of my doctoral dissertation, where I detail the method and the results of the study.

The literature in the field of digital humanities on how data visualization can be used to tell stories as a form of storytelling in itself has interested me recently. Thinking further on this, I have begun developing a tool of my own, using JavaScript and the D3 library for network visualization, which is available in my GitHub repository: https://github.com/kallewesterling/drag-data-1930s. I believe that it is of utmost essence that we engage both in the creative process of building tools themselves, while also maintaining the critical perspective on the tools and the methodologies we use.
